# ReinforcementLearning-2MD3
This program uses genetic programming and reinforcement learning to solve the Cart Centering or Isotropic Rocket problem. Simply put this program uses a population of random initial trees, which represent mathematical equations, and each generation each tree is given a fitness based on performance allowing for selective creation of the next set. Based on fitness a portion of the population will be deleted and replaced by mutations of the population that was not deleted. Every individual in the population then has a random chance to go through crossover. Once this is complete, the new population of trees are each tested in the simulation and given a fitness, restarting the process. This will continue until a maximum generation is reached or a good enough tree is found. The program also contains a custom lexicographic comparator which when enabled will not only select for the best tree but instead the best and simplest tree. Additionally, an animation of the best tree in the physics simulation is available if enabled. This project focused on understanding and using the ideas of trees for creative applications like genetic programming and reinforcement learning while ensuring memory was being handled properly and no leaks were present. Thank you!

_Note: The physics simulation and animation were created by the professor and given to students as part of the assignment. I would be interested in learning how to do this in the future, however for now, I do not want to take credit for work that isn't mine._
